Botox is the trade name of a purified form of the toxin
produced by the Clostridium botulinum bacteria.
When a small amount of botox is injected into a muscle,
it blocks nerve signals that tell your muscles to contract.
The effect is that it can temporarily smooth out facial wrinkles,
caused by muscle movement, such as forehead lines.
Botulinum Toxin Type A
has been approved by the FDA
for treating frown lines in those under 65.
Botox is also frequently used
to reduce wrinkles on the face,
such as crow’s feet and brow furrow.
The most common side effects include
skin rash
headache
bruising
flu-like symptoms
nausea
drooping mouth and eyelids
paralysis of adjacent muscles
cardiac arrhythmia
myocardial infarction
anaphylaxis